Update Okta SSO configuration (#2910)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on/okta.mdx

# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Use single sign-on with Okta for HCP Terraform

> This page is about configuring single sign-on with Okta in HCP Terraform. To enable SSO with Okta for your HCP Terraform organization, you will add HCP Terraform as an application in your Okta admin dashboard, and then configure Okta as an SSO provider in your HCP Terraform organization's settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is about configuring single sign-on with Okta in HCP Terraform. To enable SSO with Okta for your HCP Terraform organization, you add HCP Terraform as an application in your Okta admin dashboard and then configure Okta as an SSO provider in your HCP Terraform organization's settings.
```
Style nit: [Use present tense](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#use-simple-present-tense-to-describe-immediate-actions)

<!-- END: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

## Okta configuration

To configure Okta for SSO with HCP Terraform, log in to your Okta Admin Dashboard and follow these steps:

1. From your Okta Admin Dashboard, click the **Add Applications** shortcut.
1. Search for **Terraform Cloud** and select it.
1. Click **Add** on the application's page.
1. Choose a label for your application or keep the default, "Terraform Cloud".
1. Click **Done**.
1. Visit the **Sign On** tab in the application.

> 1. Under **SAML Setup, click **View SAML setup instructions**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under **SAML Setup**, click **View SAML setup instructions**.
```

> 1. Choose a label for your application or keep the default, "Terraform Cloud".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Choose a label for your application. The default label is `Terraform Cloud`.
```

> 1. Copy the **Okta Metadata URL** URL under step 4 to your clipboard. You will use this value in the next section to configure HCP Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the **Okta Metadata URL** URL under **step 4** to your clipboard. You use this value in the next section to configure HCP Terraform.
```
Is "step 4" a UI label? If yes, it should be bold.

> 1. Copy the **Okta Metadata URL** URL under **step 4** to your clipboard. You use this value in the next section to configure HCP Terraform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Copy the **Okta Metadata URL** URL from step 4 to your clipboard. You use this value in the next section to configure HCP Terraform.
```
I can see the argument for bolding the reference, so I could go either way.

> For information on configuring automated team mapping using Okta group membership, refer to the [Team mapping configuration](#team-mapping-configuration) section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on configuring automated team mapping using Okta group membership, refer to the [Team mapping configuration](#team-mapping-configuration) section.
```
No directional words like "below" or "above".

## HCP Terraform configuration

To configure HCP Terraform for SSO, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) and select the organization you want to enable SSO for.
1. Select **Settings** from the sidebar, then **SSO**.
1. Click **Setup SSO**.
1. Select **Okta** and click **Next**.
1. Provide the Okta metadata URL that you copied to your clipboard in the previous section, and click the **Save settings** button.

> 1. [Verify](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on/testing) your settings and click **Enable**.

Reviewer: I know this line is out of scope, but...

```suggestion
1. Verify your settings and click **Enable**. Refer to [Test single sign-on](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on/testing) for steps.
```

> Your Okta SSO configuration is complete and ready to [use](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on#signing-in-with-sso).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Okta SSO configuration is complete and ready to use. Refer to [Signing in with SSO](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on#signing-in-with-sso) for instructions.
```

## Team mapping configuration

> HCP Terraform can automatically assign users to teams based on their Okta SAML assertion, so you can manage your organization's team membership in your directory service. To do this, you must specify the `MemberOf` SAML attribute, and make sure the `AttributeStatement` in the SAML Response contains a list of `AttributeValue` items in the correct format, which is a comma-separated list of team names. For more details, refer to [HCP Terraform SSO](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HCP Terraform can automatically assign users to teams based on their Okta SAML assertion. This lets you manage your organization's team membership in your directory service. 

To enable this functionality, specify the `MemberOf` SAML attribute and make sure the `AttributeStatement` in the SAML response contains a list of `AttributeValue` items as a comma-separated list of team names. For more details, refer to [HCP Terraform SSO](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on).
```

> HCP Terraform can automatically assign users to teams based on their Okta SAML assertion, so you can manage your organization's team membership in your directory service. To do this, you must specify the `MemberOf` SAML attribute, and make sure the `AttributeStatement` in the SAML Response contains a list of `AttributeValue` items in the correct format (a comma-separated list of team names). For more details, refer to [HCP Terraform SSO](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCP Terraform can automatically assign users to teams based on their Okta SAML assertion, so you can manage your organization's team membership in your directory service. To do this, you must specify the `MemberOf` SAML attribute, and make sure the `AttributeStatement` in the SAML Response contains a list of `AttributeValue` items in the correct format, which is a comma-separated list of team names. For more details, refer to [HCP Terraform SSO](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/single-sign-on).
```

> To enable team mapping in Okta, you must first complete the steps outlined in the [Okta configuration](#okta-configuration) section above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable team mapping in Okta, you must first complete the steps outlined in the previous [Okta configuration](#okta-configuration) section.
```

To enable automated team mapping functionality, log into your Okta Admin Dashboard, navigate to your **Terraform Cloud** Okta application, and complete the following steps:

1. Under the **Sign On** tab, scroll down to **Attribute statements** and expand the **Show legacy configuration** component.
1. Set the **Group Attribute Statements** to the following:
   - Name: `MemberOf`
   - Name format: `Basic`
   - Filter: `Matches regex`
   - Filter value: `.*`

> After you have enabled team mapping in Okta, whenever a user logs in to your HCP Terraform organization, Okta passes the names of all of the Okta groups to which a given user belongs in the SAML assertion it sends to HCP Terraform. HCP Terraform assigns the user to teams within your organization whose names exactly match the name of an Okta group. HCP Terraform removes the user from any teams whose names are not included in the SAML assertion. This overrides any manually set team memberships, so whenever a user logs in via SSO, HCP Terraform adjusts their team membership to match their Okta SAML assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have enabled team mapping in Okta, whenever a user logs in to your HCP Terraform organization, Okta passes the names of all of the Okta groups to which a given user belongs in the SAML assertion it sends to HCP Terraform. HCP Terraform assigns the user to teams within your organization whose names exactly match the name of an Okta group. HCP Terraform removes the user from any teams whose names are not included in the SAML assertion. This overrides any manually set team memberships, so whenever a user logs in via SSO, HCP Terraform adjusts that user's team membership to match their Okta SAML assertion.
```
personal nit too many "their"

> After you have enabled team mapping in Okta, whenever a user logs in to your HCP Terraform organization, Okta passes the names of all of the Okta groups to which a given user belongs in the SAML assertion it sends to HCP Terraform. HCP Terraform assigns the user to teams within your organization whose names exactly match the name of an Okta group. HCP Terraform removes the user from any teams whose names are not included in the SAML assertion. This overrides any manually set team memberships, so whenever a user logs in via SSO, HCP Terraform adjusts that user's team membership to match their Okta SAML assertion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After enabling team mapping in Okta, the following membership lifecycle occurs when a user logs in to your organization:

1. Okta includes the names of all Okta groups the user belongs to in the SAML assertion that it sends to HCP Terraform. 
1. Then, HCP Terraform assigns the user to teams within your organization whose names exactly match the name of an Okta group. 
1. HCP Terraform removes the user from any teams whose names are not included in the SAML assertion. This overrides any manually set team memberships. As a result,  HCP Terraform adjusts the user's team membership to match their Okta SAML assertion whenever the user logs in using SSO. 
```
Is that any clearer? Would referring to "the following actions" instead of "the following lifecycle" be more accurate or easier to understand?

<!-- END: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

## Okta configuration

To configure Okta for SSO with HCP Terraform, log in to your Okta Admin Dashboard and follow these steps:

1. From your Okta Admin Dashboard, click the **Add Applications** shortcut.
1. Search for **Terraform Cloud** and select it.
1. Click **Add** on the application's page.
1. Choose a label for your application or keep the default, "Terraform Cloud".
1. Click **Done**.
1. Visit the **Provisioning** tab in the application, and select **To App** from the left navigaiton.
1. On the **Provisioning to App** page, ensure that the following options are enabled:
   - **Create Users**
   - **Update User Attributes**

>    - **Deactivate Users**

Reviewer 3: These two Provisioning steps aren't needed for SSO setup.
```suggestion

```
